# Expressions

> <sup>**Syntax**</sup>\
> *Expressions&lt;iter&gt;* :\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; [*ImplicitIterator*](iterators.md)<sub>only if *iter* = `true`</sub>\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; | *SimpleExpression*\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; | *Expression&lt;iter&gt;* *BinOp* *Expression&lt;iter&gt;*;\
> \
> *BinOp* :\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; `+` | `-` | `*` | `/`\
> \
> *SimpleExpression* :\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; *SimpleExpressionKind* *[Properties](properties.md)*<sup>?</sup>\
> \
> *SimpleExpressionKind* :\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; [IDENT](identifiers.md)\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; | [NUMBER](numbers.md)\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; | *ExprCall*\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; | *UnOp* *SimpleExpression*\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; | `(` *Expression&lt;true&gt;* `)`\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; | *[ExplicitIterator](iterators.md)*\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; | *PointCollectionConstructor*\
>\
> *ExprCall* :\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; [NAMED_IDENT](identifiers.md) `(` (*Expression&lt;false&gt;* (`,` *Expression&lt;false&gt;*)<sup>\*</sup>)<sup>?</sup> `)`\
> \
> *UnOp* :\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; `-`\
> \
> *PointCollectionConstructor* :\
> &nbsp;&nbsp; `&` `(` *Expression&lt;false&gt;* (`,` *Expression&lt;false&gt;*)<sup>\*</sup> `)`

Expressions represent all values in GeoScript. A simple example of an expression is a variable reference with the variable's value or a number literal. After most expressions display options can be given, modifying how the expression affects the final figure visually.

## Variables
Identifiers denote variables created with `let` statements. When given weight to a named identifier, it will affect the weighing of the definition after expansion (the definition itself won't be affected). When a weight is given to a point collection, it will act as though it was given to each of the referenced points. Note, however, that since point collections are simply abstracitons, there is no guarantee that each point of the collection will be used. It the vast majority of cases that can however be guaranteed.

## Functions
Using a typical call syntax (`funcname(arg1, arg2, ...)`) one can also call functions with specified parameters. Functions can modify the visual output of the figure, e. g. add a line/ray. This behavior can be usually modified using display options. Some functions accept parameter groups, allowing infinite number of parameters. All functions return a single value. Implicit iterators cannot be used in function parameters, unless surrounded by parenthesis.

Weights given to function calls affect the parameters and the expression generated by the function.

## Operators
Binary operators all have the standard mathematical operation order. Unary operators always precede binary operators and implicit iterators always precede all operators. You can define your own order with parenthesis.

Currently, Geo-AID supports only addition, subtraction, multiplication and division as binary operators and negation as unary.

Weight in binary operations is applied to both of their operands. In unary operations, it is directly applied to their single operand.

## Point Collections
Expressions can also be used to construct point collections out of other expressions with `&(A, B, ...)` syntax. All expressions inside must be convertible to points.

Weights on point collections are treated as though they were applied to each of the collected points.

## Parentheses
Putting expressions in parentheses allows for modifying the order of operations or allowing the use of explicit iterators in contexts, where it wouldn't be normally possible. Weights applied to parenthised expressions are applied to their contained expressions. Note, that sometimes applied weight to parenthised expressions is the only way to apply weight to the entire expression (for example: binary operations).